# Basic Sample Hardhat Project

This project demonstrates a basic Hardhat use case. It comes with a sample contract, a test for that contract, a sample script that deploys that contract, and an example of a task implementation, which simply lists the available accounts.

Try running some of the following tasks:

```shell
npx hardhat accounts
npx hardhat compile
npx hardhat clean
npx hardhat test
npx hardhat node
node scripts/sample-script.js
npx hardhat help
```

Initial setup 
=============================
cd my-wave-portal
npm init -y
npm install --save-dev hardhat

For Sample project - npx hardhat 


npx hardhat accounts - strings generated by hardhat to stimulate real users on blockchain
npx hardhat compile - To compile
npx hardhat test - To Test

Delete un necessary starter code 
- file sample-test.js under test.  Also, delete sample-script.js under scripts. Then, delete Greeter.sol under contracts
================================ 

Write a smart contract in .sol file in contracts folder 

Compile it 
Deploy to local blockchain
Once deployed we can see our console log statements 

Above 3 steps => compile, deploy, execute => Write a script in scripts folder 

===============================
After writing script
npx hardhat run scripts/run.js

We deployed smart contract to the local blockchain

What it does?
- Create a new local ethereum network 
- Deploy contract
- Hardhat destroys local network after script ends 

============================

Store the Data

The blockchain = Think of it as a cloud provider, kinda like AWS, but it's owned by no one. It's run by compute power from mining machines all over the world. Usually these people are called miners and we pay them to run our code!

A smart contract = Kinda like our server's code with different functions people can hit.

============================

To keep local server alive so that we can build our website and test

npx hardhat node

- Local ethereum network with 20 accounts 
- Empty blockchain
- We need to create a new block and deploy our smart contract on it 
- deploy.js 

To run 
npx hardhat run scripts/deploy.js --network localhost 

============================

Alchemy

- Simple way to deploy our contracts to the real Ethereum blockchain.
- Create a new app on alchemy 

Transaction

Every action on Ethereum blockchain is called Transaction
    Ex - Sending some ETH, Updating a variable in our contract, Deploying a contract

blockchain is just a bunch of computers, around the world run by miners that have a copy of the blockchain( transactions ).

When we deploy our contract, we need to tell all those miners, "hey, this is a new smart contract, please add my smart contract to the blockchain and then tell everyone else about it as well".

Alchemy comes in and helps broadcast our contract creation transaction so that it can be picked up by miners as quickly as possible. 

Once the transaction is mined, it is then broadcasted to the blockchain as a legit transaction. 

From there, everyone updates their copy of the blockchain.

============================

Testnet 

- Free
- Run by actual miners and mimic real-world scenarios

We can test our application in a real-world scenario where we're actually going to:

1. Broadcast our transaction
2. Wait for it to be picked up by actual miners
3. Wait for it to be mined
4. Wait for it to be broadcasted back to the blockchain telling all the other miners to update their copies

Contract => Deploy to Mainnet => Real Money
Contract => Deploy to Testnet => Fake Money ( Fake Ethereum )

Rinkeby Testnet

https://faucets.chain.link/rinkeby
Get fake ethereum from above  into your metamask wallet

---------------------------

Deploy to Rinkeby testnet
============================
npm install --save dotenv

Modify hardhat.config.js and .env 

Why do you need to use your private key? 
- To perform a transaction like deploying a contract, you need to "login" to the blockchain. 
- Your username is your public address,  password is your private key. It's kinda like logging into AWS or GCP to deploy.

To deploy => npx hardhat run scripts/deploy.js --network rinkeby

------------------------------

https://rinkeby.etherscan.io => Enter your deployed contract address and view the transaction

-----------------------------------

Connect Wallet with Webapp
============================

For our website to talk to the blockchain, we need to somehow connect our wallet to it. 
Once we connect our wallet to our website, our website will have permissions to call smart contracts on our behalf.
( similar to authenticating in to a website )

If we're logged in to Metamask, it will automatically inject a special object named ethereum into our window.

================================================
We have done the deployment of the contract

Below is only when customized modifications to the contract
================================================ 

update WavePortal.sol 
    Storing messages from users on the blockchain
    - Struct in solidity
    - Event in solidity 
        - events are ways to communicate with a client application or front-end website that something has happened on the blockchain.

Update run.js to test the new functionality we added.

npx hardhat run scripts/run.js => Test locally
npx hardhat run scripts/deploy.js --network rinkeby => Deploy on network

change files on front end

---------------------------